---
layout: post
title:  "Odyssey of the Faceless Men"
date:   2024-05-18 23:00:00 +1000
---

## Intro

I think it is a good idea to write about my games. Writing in general feels like a good idea to me, for a number of vague reasons I guess.

This is the most recent game I've made. It was made for the [CanDev 2024 game jam](https://itch.io/jam/canberrajam24), which supposedly lasted 48 hours. To be honest I was not excited for this jam. Going in, I perhaps had the least amount of excitement I have had for a jam. Which sounds gloomy, but as it turns out jams are pretty fun, and I had a good time. The reason I was not excited was that this was not a normal jam. The theme for the jam was announced a month ahead of time, and the theme was "Put Canberra in your game in some way (if you want)".

The previous themes for jams I have done were:
- Roll of the dice
- The end is near
- Roots
- Less is more
- Roles reversed
- Metroidvania
- Make me laugh (I had to search this up because I completely forgot)
- Summoning

I would say the theme this time is actually the worst of them all. You could argue "metroidvania" is worse because only serves to stifle creativity, but I think the inclusion of "(if you want)" is what puts it over the edge for me - because I don't know, it feels like it is defeating the point of a game jam. The theme itself is admitting that it is weak, and you don't have to follow it since you can do better.

To give some extra context to the jam, you are given 48 hours to do your game, spread out over a week using an honor system. At the end of the week there is an online event called "Pizza and Pixels"where people in Canberra (where I live btw) play your games and give feedback (there are no ratings). The intent is to promote the community, have fun, meet new people, etc. So the early theme reveal, lax theme, unusual timespan, and lack of ratings were because this jam did not have the same goal as most other jams I participated in; it needed to be as approachable as possible to maximise participation. In some ways I am still unsure about whether this approach met what I think its goals were.

- The early theme reveal removes the exciting element from the start of the jam.
- A vague theme/non-theme might sound like a good idea if you don't think about it. A huge strength of game jams is that it rids you of decision paralysis. There are no longer infinite options, only a small subset, and you **need** to decide what you're doing **right now** or you aren't going to finish your game.
- The honor-system time period is both hit and miss for me. I think it is absolutely true that there would be less entries if not for this. But also we just felt no time pressure during the jam, which I think is definitely part of the excitement for myself, as I work well under pressure. I understand though that this isn't true for everyone.

Also, despite being a Canberra jam, for the Canberra community, the jam was not hosted in Canberra. No, it was hosted online because "it's too cold in Canberra". I really just think this is silly; if you know me you have probably heard me whine about it recently. I don't really believe in meeting people online - like I know it happens, but it doesn't give you the same things, it doesn't force you to be personal. It's so easy for like a musician to enter your game jam discord, submit a song in #general after chatting a bit, and then dip without getting to know anyone. Just having a person next to you makes it much easier to share ideas, chat, suffer together, etc.

## Part 2

I'm splitting this up into a second part, because the first part is negative, and this is not a negative blog post! So we need to move past that.
If I am to defend myself, I'm trying to write without planning, and without editing. I tend to over edit everything I write, and then never finish, so this is me rebelling against that I guess. While the game jam was conceptually __not great__, and I was compelled to write about that, I honestly had a great time. So let's talk about what actually happened.


